>> Todd Gardner: Next,
we're gonna talk about tests and tools.
So how to actually test for these metrics,
how to gather this data and
how to interpret it as part of that,
we're gonna need to talk
a little bit about statistics.
Now, this isn't gonna be like
a seventh grade math course.
We're just gonna do just
enough to get us by so
don't feel too bad you
didn't do your homework.
So we're gonna talk about testing methods
like, how do we go and look at this data?
Then we're gonna look at some
common tools that we use, and
then we're gonna talk briefly about
real user monitoring, which is
a classification of tool, that can help
you gather a bunch of interesting data.
So first, testing performance.
How do we go about thinking
about capturing data?
Where do we get the data from?
So there's a couple of different
approaches to this, and
each has a little bit different drawbacks.
So there's a couple of different
ways we can test performance.
It's important to think about this,
because how we measure performance?
Where we choose to measure from can
give us drastically different results.
Fundamentally, what we're doing
is we have a host somewhere.
This could be a server, it could be your
cloud, it could be the hosting service
you provide, and that has all your
content, and then you're delivering that
content across the Internet to your
users and rendering it on their device.
And so there's a couple of
different places we could test that
web performance from, the first place, and
the most common place that most people
do it is with what's called lab data.
Is they create a test device and
it's located usually somewhere
really close to the host.
Close in terms of like network or
connectivity or whatever for
example, when I'm running
our sticker store locally,
I'm literally testing
the performance from the same place.
It's not needing to cross any networks or
do anything that would be lab data.
So we have a test device, we render it and
we gather some metrics about it.
Another place that's really common place
to test is what's called synthetic data,
as we have some robots some service out
in the internet somewhere that we say,
hey go to that website and
tell me how fast is.
Now that's a little bit better,
it's a little bit more accurate because it
crosses a real network
in order to test it.
But generally, these test devices are just
a server like another high-end machine
on a high-end network somewhere out on
the Internet that is rendering your page.
We're not really,
neither of these two approaches
are testing what the users are seeing.
We're both just taking like we're
cutting out a bunch of steps and
creating a simulation of what we
think the site is gonna be doing.
The third way that we can capture
data is called field data.
And that's what we were talking
about a little bit this morning,
is we can capture those performance
metrics from the real users
using your site and
send that data off to a reporting service.
Now this is the most accurate
way because it is reality.
It's these are the people
that visit your site and
this is the performance
experience they had.
Everything else was a diagnostic,
was a test.
But this sort of field data is real.
It's gathering this real data.
Now there's huge differences in this.
And it's important to note that
there's a sample size involved.
So this is the same, this is performance
data from the exact same website.
On the left is a Chrome Lighthouse report,
which is a tool that we'll talk about.
And a Chrome Lighthouse
report is lab data.
It's, I am running a test from my
laptop against a server that's
probably close to where my laptop
is maybe hosted from my laptop.
And it generated
a performance score of 100,
which means that time,
that one time performance was great.
On the right are the core web vital
data from the real users that visit that
site and
notice that there's not one score there.
There's thousands of scores representing
every single user who visited.
Now this is two different
views of the same website, and
on the left we have lab data saying
you got a perfect performance score.
And on the right we have
field data saying, hey,
there's a lot of people that have
a crappy experience on your website.
Now, it's not saying they
all do because some people.
Some people had a great experience.
It does happen sometimes, but a lot of
people had a really bad experience.
And so we have to think
about how we look at data.
When we're talking about lab data,
we have one sample.
You run a test, you get one performance
score back, and it says something,
it says 100, it says 95, it says 80,
it says some metric that you're tracking
and it gives you one data point.
But when we're looking at field data,
we get lots of data points.
You have one score, one value for
every single user who visits the page over
whatever time period you're looking at.
And we have to interpret this data
because these could be performance
data from the same website, but
how do we think about this?